<h1>The Burckhardt Source</h1>

For my Digital Humanities project, I am hoping to undertake a project that will involve the presentation of historic letters. My interest in historic correspondence led me to review the [Burckhardt Source](http://burckhardtsource.org/), a database of letters sent to art critic and historian Jacob Burckhardt throughout much of the nineteenth century. This review uses the criteria laid out by Shannon Christine Mattern in [“Evaluating Multimodal Work, Revisited”](http://journalofdigitalhumanities.org/1-4/evaluating-multimodal-work-revisited-by-shannon-mattern/) and in our [group discussions](https://github.com/jacobheil/IDPT-19916-01/tree/master/evaluation-list).

<h2>Concept & Content:</h2>  
<p>The goal of the Burckhardt Source Project is to create a database of the letters written to the art critic and historian Jacob Burckhardt by other European intellectuals between the years 1843 and 1897. Although this task could be accomplished in a traditional medium, the Burckhardt Source succeeds as a Digital Humanities project because it uses digital resources to create “critical editions” of the letters. Each letter has two displays: a “Semantic Edition” and a “Philological Version.” The Semantic Edition displays the text of the letter, complete with annotations. The Philological Version presents an images of the letter’s pages side-by-side with a running text of the document. This accompanying text also visualizes any editorial decisions made by the transcriber. Each letter also gives the visitor access to the metadata attached to the manuscript. These three different form of presentation provide visitors to the database with multiple ways of seeing and understanding the physical letters sent to Jacob Burckhardt. The project also demonstrates how the physical images, text, commentary, and metadata are all interconnected.</p>

<h2>Design & Technique:</h2>  
<p>The design of the Burckhardt Source serves the project’s purpose as it promotes accessibility to the letters and their attached critical commentary. The homepage of the site gives new visitors easy access to the collection by providing links to several small anthologies organized around six different themes, including: Potnia (devoted to the social condition of women in the nineteenth century), Music, Europe, and Photography. Researchers who wish to view the entirety of the 600+ manuscript collection are aided by a convenient browsing tool. Visitors can filter their searches by “year,” “sender,” and “compilation place.” Alternatively, they can choose to view only those letters associated with a particular person, place, or artwork.</p>  
<p>One innovative aspect of the project is the use of annotations within the Semantic Editions of the letters. Editors can use the Pundit Annotator to add contextual information about the places, people, and artworks referenced in the letters. The Pundit annotations draw from external, biographical resources stored in a Korba2 database. These resources are standardized using authority files from the German National Library.</p>
<p>Burckhardt Source also embarks on the ambitious task of visualizing how these person/place/artwork resources, and the letters that contain them, are interconnected. It does so with an “Advanced Semantic View,” powered by LodLive. LodLive creates a web to visualize links between Resource Description Framework (RDF) resources – a type of metadata data model. Burckhardt’s Advanced Semantic View demonstrates how the person, place, and artwork resources are linked, and which letters in the database are associated with each. When a visitor accesses this feature of the site, however, he or she is presented with a random resource file, making it difficult to locate a desired one. Furthermore, the vast number of resources and letters makes it impractical for visitors to navigate the collection of letters in this way.</p>

<h2>Collaboration & Documentation:</h2>  
<p>The project was funded by the European Research Advanced Grant Project (EUROCORR) and led by Maurizio Ghelardi, a professor of Philosophy at the Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa, Italy. His team consisted of 7 post-doctoral research assistants and fellows and 5 software engineers, graphic designers, and Digital Humanities assistants. Although no peer reviews of the project are readily available in English, they may exist in other languages, as this was an Italian project. Members of the team have published their research, methods, and results over 30 times at conferences and in journals.</p>  
The team kept sound [documentation](http://wiki.burckhardtsource.org/) of the methods it used in the backend of the project. It released several protocols explaining the rules guiding the XML encoding of each version of the letters. These protocol provide a set of standardized criteria to guide transcription, annotations, and metadata. The team also describes the different software that Burckhardt Source employs both in the backend and frontend of the project.</p>  
<p>The frontend module for the project is a publishing platform called Muruca, which allows users to easily create digital libraries. The downside of Muruca is that it is not an open source program, making it very difficult for Digital Humanities students to use Burckhardt Source as a model for their own projects. Also, although the team documented their criteria for the XML encoding of the letters, these XML files do not seem to be available anywhere, making it impossible to actually see an example of its work.</p>    

<h2>Conclusion:</h2>  
<p>Overall, Burckhardt Source’s accomplishes its stated endeavor to serve as a digital library of a critical edition of annotated manuscript letters sent to the art critic, Jacob Burckhardt. The design of the site, for the most part, supports this function, as the letters are generally easy to browse when searching for a specific person, place, or artwork. The team of the Burckhardt Source left behind detailed documentation regarding the criteria it established to guide its own work. However, the coding for the XML files and project software are not accessible to interested visitors.</p>  
Apart from its stated goal, Burckhardt Source also had a secondary objective often implied by elements of the project. Net7, the creators of Muruca, explain that the project also desired to demonstrate how the body of correspondence to Burckhardt ["provides a cultural map of this crucial phase in the development of a new European identity."](http://www.netseven.it/project/burckhardt-source/) Burckhardt Source attempted to form a “cultural map” through its curated selections of letter, its annotations, and its Advanced Semantic View web. However, these do not effectively link the content of different letters, and instead the project is most useful only as a database of singular, annotated manuscripts. A novel technique to visualize the relationships between the content of the letters is needed for the project to realize its secondary goal.</p>   
